"plug-in-gap-storyboard-clip-prop"


Transition Attributes (Storyboard)

    The transition attributes dialog window is used to
    control transitions that shall be performed on the following
    clips in the same storyboard video track.
    It is a popup dialog of the storyboard editor

    ## refere to Storyboard Dialog
    ## (plug-in-gap-storyboard-edit.txt)

    supported transitions are:

    - Opacity changes
    - Moves related to the center position 0/0 (Scrolling)
    - Scaling (Zoom)
    
    The dialog has 2 previews:
    The left one shows the transition effect
    start settings applied on the first affected frame.
    The right one shows the transition end settings applied
    on the last affected frame.
    The previews show the size of the resulting video (master size)
    in a centered green frame and the environment around the master size
    with solid grey background.
    
    Note: the last affected frame can be different for each
    single transition. In this case the preview shows only one frame
    as 'last affected' using the first enabled transition.
    
    FitSize:
      Width:
        Enabled: Scale width of input clips to fit into the resulting master width.
      Height
        Enabled: Scale height of input clips to fit into the resulting master height.
      Keep Proportion
        Enabled: Keep proportions of the input frame at scaling.
      
    Opacity:
      Settings for the opacity where 0 is fully transparent and 100 is fully opaque. 
    Move X:
      Scroll settings, where 0.0 is horizontal centered, 100.0 moves the frame
      entirely outside the right border of the master width.
    Move Y:
      Scroll settings, where 0.0 is vertical centered, 100.0 moves the frame
      entirely outside the lower border of the master height.
    Scale Width:
     Zoom settings, where 100.0 specifies no scaling, 200.0 is scaling to double width,
     50.0 is scaling down to half width. 
    Scale Height:
     Zoom settings, where 100.0 specifies no scaling, 200.0 is scaling to double height,
     50.0 is scaling dow to half height.
     
    Frames:
      Duration of the transition effect measured in frames.

    Acceleration Characteristic:
      A Spinbutton and a graph widget
      is available to enter and display the acceleration characteristc value
      in each row (for Opacity, MoveX, MoveY, ScaleWidht and ScaleHeight)
      The graph next to the spinbutton shows the selected acceleration characteristic curve.
      The acceleration characteristic can also be changed by
      clicking on th graph and dragging vertically with the mouse.
      	
      A straight line from left bottom to right top corner of the graph
      is drawn for value 1 that represents constant speed.
      other positive values result in increasing speed of the transition,
      negative values result in decreasing speed.

      
    Comment:
      An optional comment text on the transition.

Reset
    This button resets all settings to the values at opening 
    time of this dialog window.
    
    
