"plug-in-gap-storyboard-clip-prop"


Clip Properties (Storyboard)

    The clip properties dialog window is used to
    create new clips and to view and update properties
    of existing clips in a storyboard file.
    It is a popup dialog of the storyboard editor

    ## refere to Storyboard Dialog
    ## (plug-in-gap-storyboard-edit.txt)

    File:
      Clips use a filename to refere to a videofile or to 
      a frame imagefile on disk.
      The button "..." opens a filebrowser dialog window
      where you can select the filename.

      The Clip Type is detected automatically (depending on the file) as:
	MOVIE
	FRAME-IMAGES
	SINGLE-IMAGE

    From:
    To:
      Here you can enter the selected frame range for the clip.
      (those widgets are disabled when file referes to a single image)
      
    Loops:
      Here you can specify the number of loops, where a value of 2
      shows the selected range of frames two times in a loop.
 
    Pingpong:
      The Pingpong checkbutton plays the selected range forward
      and backwards.
      If the selected range is from 1 to 5
      the clip is played as sequence  1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 4, 3, 2
      
    Stepsize:
      With the stepsize density you can affect the playback speed
      individual per clip without changing the master framerate
      of the storyboard file.
      Values greater than one results in skipping input frames
      and will speed up the clip.
      Values less than one does show some frames twice
      and does slow down the clip.
      
      For normal playback of the clip use stepsize value 1.0.      
      
      
    Videotrack:
      Here you can select the number of the input videotrack.
      Most videos have just one track.
      Some DVD videos have multiple angle view where the different
      angles are represented by 2 or more videotracks.
      Note: 
        the videotrack is only available for clip type MOVIE.
    
    Deinterlace:
      Deinterlacing is selected via radio buttons.
      Fetching frames out of already encoded videofiles
      has a built in deinterlace filter.
      Interlaced frames are built up of 2 half pictures,
      where the even lines build the one half and the odd lines
      build the other half picture.
      The deinterlace filter builds the extracted frame
      by picking only the lines of one of the half pictures
      and replaceng the lines of the other half picture
      by more or less smooth mixing the upper and lower neighbour lines.
      The mix is controlled with the spinbutton value
      where 1.0 is a smooth mix, and 0.0 takes just one of the
      neighbour lines without mixing.
      That way the deinterlaced frames have same height as the
      originals.
      
      The deinterlace radio buttons are:
    
      "None"
          Turn off the deinterlace filter and read frames
          1:1 as they are found in the videofile.

      "Odd"
          Extract the half-picture that is represented by odd lines
      "Even"
          Extract the half-picture that is represented by even lines
	
      Note: 
        the deinterlace filter is only available for clip type
        MOVIE.

    Transform:
      Provides frame orientation transformations that are applied on frames
      of this clip.
      
      The transform radio buttons are:
      
      "None"
         keep the original frame orientation
      
      "Rotate 180"
         rotate the frames of this clip by 180 degree
      
      "Flip Horizontally"
         horizontally mirror the frames of this clip
      
      "Flip Vertically"
         vertically mirror the frames of this clip
      


    Duration:
      Information about the duration of the clip in frames
      and playtime in format mm:ss:msec
      


    Mask:
      Individual transparency foreach frame of the clip
      can be added by selecting a mask.
      Important:
      You must define (at least one) Mask clip in the Mask Section of the Storyboard
      before you can assign a mask to a clip.
      
      The mask can be assigned to clip or master.
      
      o) Clip    ... the mask is scaled to the size of the fetched frame of the clip
                     and attached as additional transparency
                     before transitions (move and scale) are applied.
                     Eg. the mask moves and scales with the clip.
      
      o) Master ... the mask is scaled to the size of the resulting frame
                    and attached after transitions (move and scale) were already applied.
                    E.g the mask is fixed in size and position.


      Mask Stepsize:
        In case the assigned mask clip is an animation (and not a sinle image),
        the mask stepsize controls how to advance to the next mask frame.
        Where a value of 2.0 speeds up the mask effect (by skipping
        every 2nd frame in the assigned mask clip)
        A value of 0.5 will slow down the mask effect.
        Use value 1.0 for normal speed for mask effect.


    Filtermacro:
       Here you can specify the filename of a GIMP-GAP filtermacro
       that shall be applied for each frame of this clip.
       
       see plug-in-filter-macro.txt how to record filtermacros
       and STORYBOARD_FILE_DOC.txt chapter Macrofiles for more details.
    
       Filtermacro Steps:
         Here you can enter the duration in number of frames for the transition
         of settings from filtermacro to settings of a 2nd filtermacro
         (in case a 2nd filtermacro is available)
       
         Use value 1 to apply just constant settings of the 1st filtermacro
         (if a 2nd filtermacro is available it will be ignored
         and its name will be displayed with the prefix "OFF")

       Note that filtermacro effects are not automatically visible
       in standard playback of the Storyboard dialog.
       You must use the playback based on full rendering
       to preview those effects.
      
       

    Filtermacro2:
       For applying filtermacros with varing values you need a 2nd
       filtermacro file.
       The 2nd filtermacro file is automatically identified via naming convention
       and can NOT be specified explicite. Its name is diplayed read only
       when such a file is available, and prefixed with "ON" when active
       or "OFF" when disabled (e.g duration of 1 frame is specified)
       
       
       see STORYBOARD_FILE_DOC.txt chapter Macrofiles for details
       about applying filtermacros with varying values.

       Acceleration Characteristic for applying filtermacro with varying values:
       A Spinbutton and a graph widget
       is available to enter and display the acceleration characteristc value
       The graph next to the spinbutton shows the selected acceleration characteristic curve.
       The acceleration characteristic can also be changed by
       clicking on th graph and dragging vertically with the mouse.
      	
       A straight line from left bottom to right top corner of the graph
       is drawn for value 1 that represents constant speed.
       other positive values result in increasing speed of the transition,
       negative values result in decreasing speed.





    Comment:
      An optional comment text on the clip.

Find Scene End
    This button checks the frames in the defined range
    between "From" and "To" for significant changes
    and sets the "To" value to the first detected scene change.
    
Auto Scene Split
    The button "Auto Scene Split" will scann all the frames 
    in the selected range and create new clips on every significant
    scene change. The new clips are added at end of the storyboard.
    (or cliplist)
    You may stop the scan any time with the "Close" button.
    
